---
title: "Week 3 Log"
date: 2021-05-29
draft: false
type: "post"
---
## Weekly summary
So week 3 is almost coming to an end and we are left with 2 days to our first milestone! Along the way, we were met with some obstacles and had to make some difficult decisions. But what's a journey without any obstacle right?

## Mentor-less
Unfortunately, we weren't matched with a mentor because our project may not be "technical" enough. While we embark on this project knowing full well that this is an issue that would arise, not having a mentor does pose a challenge to us futher down the road.

After meeting with our advisor for guidance, he encouraged us to expand on the app complexity. We made the decision to come up with a real-time matchmaking system to allow friends (and strangers) to converse remotely. Perfect for this Covid period! Honestly, if you ask me, this might be a blessing in disguise because we are now not bogged down by the expectations of our mentor and have the freedom to do things the way we want it. Who knows?

## Backend
We managed to set up a server connected to a database as well as make api calls to [Unsplash API](https://unsplash.com/developers). Unsplash is a website dedicated to sharing great stock photo and has an extensive library of photos
from a myriad of categories. Making request to the Unsplash api is also really simple. I had a lot of fun learning how to use it.

We'll use Unsplash for a really cool feature we have, which is picture cards! Look out for that!! :sunglasses:

## Frontend
... And of course, the backend needs to be connected to the frontend. We've linked up both ends, so now we're officially fullstack! We're just making simple calls to the backend for now, but Very Soon it'll be a nice big integration with a bunch of features. Can't wait for that.

## Summary
_"To get through the hardest journey, we need take only one step at a time, but we must keep on stepping."_

~~What do you think of this quote?~~
