---
title: "Week 6 Log"
date: 2021-06-20T15:00:15+08:00
draft: true
---

## Weekly Summary

Week 6 is over! We're nearly halfway done with our Orbital journey, and Milestone 2 is coming up *really* soon!

This week, we worked on lots of feature implementations. First one (along the way to being done) is the Live Multiplayer feature! This feature will incorporate live chat where you can join rooms in realtime and get to discuss great questions with your friends. Additionally, features such as Favourites, Sharing, and Profile are nearly done! Our question bank also nearly doubled in size after the hard work put into it last week!

Let's go over one of the interesting things encountered this week.

## Mobiles and Desktops

A super important point we had to account for is the proliferation of mobile computing nowadays. Ever since smartphones became popular, it was necessary to accommodate for mobile devices whenever creating web-related content. Even when we deliberated over [React vs React Native](/post/003-week2/#decisions), we had to make considerations between mobile development or accommodating typical desktop computing devices.

As a result, as it stands for SPARK now, we are devoloping with a mobile-first philosophy in mind, but also keeping in mind not to neglect the desktop users as well. Throughout the development process, we have been doing things mobile-first, starting from the framework and the User Experience (UX), keeping to centered elements in our design, which look great on all kinds of displays.

Luckily, due to the tons of modern CSS selectors and the widespread use of responsive layouts, it was really easy to code much of the styles and layouts (where was `flexbox` when you needed it back in 2012!?). There have only been a tiny number of media queries in the CSS (all written by hand!), which makes this 'cross-platform' development much easier.

This week, one tiny issue that turned into a learning point popped up: registering clicks and touches on the web. Initially, it appeared that React's built-in handler, `onClick` was sufficient to manage clicks on desktop, and probably meant that touches from mobile devices would also work.

However, this wasn't the case, *for all devices*. On certain mobile devices that we tested with, the click simply wouldn't register! Some digging led to the `onTouchEnd` handler, which allowed you to call functions when taps from touchscreen devices are completed. Thus, wouldn't having `onClick` and `onTouchEnd` together, just work?

(segment of) React Code:
```jsx
const handleAction = () => {
 console.log('I was clicked/touched!');
}

return (
 <button onClick={handleAction} onTouchEnd={handleAction}> tap me! </button>
)
```

But, testing this out further on most mobile devices actually called `handleAction` *twice*! Somehow, *both* the touch event and the click event was being triggered, with just one tap.

Luckily, with some finessing and figuring out, we learned that some mobile devices *do in fact* trigger both events (a mouse click, and a tap), with a single touch event. This means, in order to prevent [multiple event capture](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Events#event_bubbling_and_capture), you could use the `preventDefault()` method.

It works now, and the event only gets called once!

```jsx
const handleAction = (e) => {
 e.preventDefault();
 console.log('I was clicked/touched!');
}

return (
 <button onClick={handleAction} onTouchEnd={handleAction}> tap me! </button>
)
```

## Summary

As always, keep on working hard and doing what you're good with! Orbital may seem like a small journey, but remember that you are not alone. You have your Orbital partner to turn to, advisors, and in fact anyone in your life that is able to support you along this journey! There is something great at the end of this experience!

We'll see you next week!

~~What is something you are passionate about?~~
