---
title: "Week 9 Log"
date: 2021-07-13T22:51:28+08:00
draft: false
---

## Weekly Summary

This week, while waiting for our feedback to come streaming in, we decided to do some clean up and refactoring of our code.

Refactoring basically means to restructure code to become neater and
improve readablity without changing the underlying logic. It could range from following naming conventions, to having some kind of application structure. While the purpose of restructuring code
might appear to be a little trival (or even redundant) at first, there are many benefits to refactoring.

### Why refactor?

1. Refactoring code makes it cleaner and easier to read, allowing you as well as your team to understand them quicker.
2. Cleaner code also means it is easier to maintain in the future
3. Refactoring code to follow good software engineering practices such as abstraction principles enables code to be reuse and prevent repeating code

## Backend Refactoring

Previously, a lot of the websocket logic is placed inside the index.js file which is really untidy and difficult to read.

***index.js***
```javascript
const app = require('./app')
const http = require('http')
const config = require('./utils/config')
const logger = require('./utils/logger')
const socketio = require('socket.io')

const server = http.createServer(app)
const io = socketio(server)

io.on('connection', socket => {
  console.log(`a socket with userID ${socket.userID} has connected`)

  socket.on('create', () => {
    ...logic
  })

  socket.on('joining', async (roomCode, callback) => {
    ...logic
  })

  socket.on('join', (roomCode) => {
    ...logic
  })

  socket.on('waiting', (empty, callback) => {
    ...logic
  })

  socket.on('leaveWaiting', () => {
    ...logic
  })

  socket.on('setQuestions', (questions) => {
    ...logic
  })

  socket.on('nextQuestion', () => {
    ...logic
  })

  socket.on('private message', ({ content }) => {
    ...logic
  })

  socket.on('leave', () => {
    ...logic
  })
})

server.listen(config.PORT, () => {
  logger.info(`Server running on port ${config.PORT}`)
})
```

Following the Single Responsibility Principle, it doesn't make sense to have a single `index.js` file manage the business logic of the socket functionality. Thus, we moved it out to another independent file.

After refactoring, the `index.js` file is a lot cleaner!
***index.js***
```javascript
const app = require('./app')
const http = require('http')
const config = require('./utils/config')
const logger = require('./utils/logger')
const server = http.createServer(app)
const { userMiddleware } = require('./socket.io/utils/middleware')

const io = require('socket.io')(server)
io.use(userMiddleware)
const registerEventHandler = require('./socket.io/eventHandler')
const onConnection = (socket) => {
  registerEventHandler(io, socket) // now all the socket events are handled here!
}

io.on('connection', onConnection)

server.listen(config.PORT, () => {
  logger.info(`Server running on port ${config.PORT}`)
})
```

## Redux Ducks

For the frontend, we decided to use Redux Ducks as an engineering pattern to structure our Redux reducers. Redux ducks suggests that we put related actions, actions creators and reducers into a single file. This make it
really easy to see how each action is called and how that change the state of the store.

Redux ducks is perfect for a small/medium scale project like ours as we do not have complicated reducers
making our code look ugly. For the github repo on redux ducks, you can [click here](https://github.com/erikras/ducks-modular-redux). For a video on difference between conventional structure vs
redux ducks, you can [click here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fn9Y76Naw_U).

In a nutshell, all our Reducers now reside in a single folder, and it's much easier to make edits in the future, since all related functions reside in close proximity to one another. It's certainly a much cleaner way of working with Redux, which we prefer immensely over the segregated pattern which was taught in the OpenFullStack course.

## Summary

Well, even though SPARK is a small project in the grand scheme of things, we've certainly learned a lot about engineering practices and what truly goes into an application. While refactoring might seem simple on a small scale, it's not uncommon to hear horror stories of code being neglected, which leads to [tech debt](https://www.productplan.com/glossary/technical-debt/).

We'll take what we've learned, and continue to ensure that the programs we write are good quality, but more importantly, maintable. Onwards to the finish line!

~~What about the future excites you? What scares you?~~
